---
id: kaluk-dathal-origins
aliases: []
tags: []
---

&emsp;The origins of the species are as obscure as one could possibly get, with every tale either being an outright fabrication, or some twisted interpretation of third or fourth-hand accounts, passed from one ear to the next. The truth is far more obfuscated, or outright unfathomable, as its implications would themselves be heretical to many a faith, if uttered with the conviction of any historical record. Thus, the origin is as follows;<br>
&emsp;Reality, existence, the here-and-now, all share a common space, a sphere in which everything that allows life itself to dwell, the very stars to shine and for the unknown laws of nature to thrive. It is this sphere that comprises the known, and beyond it is the unknown, the unknowable. It is in this region of unfathomable nothing that an entity dwells, dark and terrible, borne upon nightmarish steeds that endlessly circle so small and contrite a sphere such as ours, like a predator might for its next morsel of a meal. All told, this sphere would be little more than an appetiser to such a monstrous thing, with a hundredfold maws to devour stars, and a thousandfold talons to rend the heavens of their angels. This is the primaeval hunter, the all-consuming devourer, the end, as it were.<br>
&emsp;It is this end that awaits all spheres, from the oldest to the youngest, and as it would happen, it is this devourer that set its sights upon so small a bubble of reality, with so thin a veil. Yet still, it’s this veil that has yet to be breached, shielded from so ravenous a beast by signs and sigils unknown, made in equal measure to repel, and reinforce. The beginnings of this are likewise, as unknown as the origins of the beast, or of the creator of its repellant. Though we do know the beasts name; Aumann.<br>
&emsp;Through an endless eternity the beast did attempt to tear its way past the veil, to ensnare and satiate its hunger for even the briefest of impossible moments, and each time it failed. Thus, it with the might of its steeds did focus upon an infinitesimally small point upon the skin of this sphere, to force a hairline crack upon its seamless surface. In the process, Aumann would sap itself of every ounce of strength it had to project the most minute fragment of its consciousness into this sphere. If he could not devour from without, he would devour from within.<br>
&emsp;While what came prior has been little more than conjecture, the ravings of madmen and the written account of ancient sages that that have stared too deeply into the chasm of a very particular kind of magic, it has its merit. Levariel himself has stated in private that there is in fact some menace, some monster clawing at the walls, trying to break its way into existence itself. Yet still, it’s the revelation that there are others, more ancient and indifferent, cold and callous in their treatment. It is the fact that Aumann isn’t the only one.

&emsp;For an unknown amount of time, whether it was mere moments or entire aeons, a black star travelled the vast and unending night, past stars, nebulae, and entire congregations of interstellar phenomena, without will, without thought, without any inkling of a consciousness beyond a very simple directive; Spread. To do so, this dread omen of the end needed a source of fuel, a source of life to be able to reach beyond its grasp. It would be here that the dread sun came upon a world, verdant and primaeval, teeming with life in its myriad forms, developed over countless millions of years around an angry red sun.<br>
&emsp;The impact this had, both literally and figuratively upon the world that it came into contact with, is unknown. There was no crater like one would expect, no lasting marks upon the crust of the planet, and likewise there was no change in the historical record, as life continued to develop. In fact, there was no evidence at all that the sphere made contact with the world, until the development of complex, sapient life.<br>
&emsp;From the records available, there was a time early in the development of civilisation where something.. Happened. Evidence taken from tree rings and sedimentary layers has allowed some insight into a single year when the world went dark, and life struggled to thrive in a night that lasted for a time unknown. The Long Night, as it was called, was caused by the Dark Star as it placed itself between the world and its native red giant. Life, then, became an ever-tightening bottleneck as species either adapted, or died in the subsequent paradigm shift.<br>
&emsp;The Baleful Black Sun watched, cold and uncaring as the insignificance of it all played out beneath its sight. As whole species were birthed onto the world, and died soon after hitting an evolutionary dead end. It watched each species struggle, it watched each species drag itself through the ashen ground, the dark, empty seas, and the choking, heavy skies before it found itself viewing creatures that might have some semblance of self-awareness. In them the star found what it wanted, a feast able to sate some small portion of its hunger, and thus did the star descend.

&emsp;To suggest that the star itself descended would be wrong, as to do so would spell the end of both the world, and those that inhabited it. Rather, the sphere sent down in a small, protected shard of itself, a mere fragment of its power upon the world to land under the cover of the Long Night, for some poor, hapless soul to stumble upon. As misfortune would have it, one such soul would.<br>
&emsp;Nothing is known of the one that would stumble upon this shard of a shard of indifferent consumption, not their name, nor why precisely they had been wandering. They were, however, the first to watch as a shard of infinite darkness would fall to the world first with an almighty boom and a great flare of flame, then a thunderous crack as the monolithic structure slammed into the ashen wastes below. In the aftermath, a great crater was formed, and while one would expect to find a solid mass at its epicentre, there was instead a pool, deep and dark and seemingly endless, shimmering against what starlight remained in the sky, and the torchlight that this unfortunate wanderer had brought.<br>
&emsp;This pool of darkness was as still as the grave, remaining unaffected by those few times that a stiff wind would crest over the rim of this crater, and into the pit below. The figure, understandably, found itself drawn to this otherworldly guest, lured in by a curiosity most dissatisfied. Thus they slid down the rim of the crater, and into the shadowed depths, reliant on the faint flickering of a single torch, sustained by mere rags as protection against the night. Most would know this to be a foolish notion, dangerously so, as once they neared the still pool, a change most profound occurred.<br>

&emsp;They were still some ten feet away when the change occurred, triggered perhaps by their very presence so close to whatever it was that landed so callously upon a world now destined to die. It began as a single pulse, a quaking upon the pools still surface, beginning at its absolute centre of mass, before stilling for a time. A second followed, then a third, with less time between the prior two pulsations. A fourth, a fifth, and finally, a sixth.<br>
&emsp;It would be upon the sixth pulse that doom would come. From the pools edge it would reach for the figure, with spiderwebbed tendrils that pawed at the dirt before it, inch by inch, foot by foot. The figure, enamoured by the sight of the greater pool, hadn’t noticed. Not until the first grazes of cold, wet impossibilities brushed against the bare skin of their ankles. What came next would last but a moment, without a cry or a shriek or a shout, as where once the figure had been, there was nothing more than a still-burning torch, and drag marks upon the dirt. A seventh time, it pulsed.<br>
&emsp;From there, the nightmare would continue its pulse, though this time it would mimic the rhythmic pulse of a truly beating heart, with the deep, bass-filled thumps in an otherwise peaceful silence. The sphere above, knowing its task had been completed, withdrew from the world, and allowed for the first time in perhaps a year, for the sun to shine in its cruel, crimson glory. While true darkness hadn’t been achieved, as the Dark Star had created a year-long twilight, the land had become little more than a dry, arid, ashen waste with few, if any patches of greenery still remaining.<br>
&emsp;The pool too, yet remained, beating with a stolen heart, tearing apart the first to find it, piece by piece, cell by cell to truly understand the life it had come upon, and the life it would steal to feed its own primal need. It may have been from that, that the first notions of self-awareness did occur within this pool of darkest malignancy, torn from the mind of a misbegotten soul. It thought, therefore, it was.
